BMS_Rev2 Documentation


The primary difference between Rev 1 and Rev 2 is splitting the physical board into two different boards. The high power components are isolated to one board, which reduces difficulties in manufacturing.  The 'logic' file can be manufactured with 1 oz standard.

TO DO:
	Finalize interconnect stuff
	Probably more stuff



_power Documentation:

The '_power' board must be manufactured with 3 oz/ft^2 of copper minimum, preferably 4 oz/ft^2. The board should be designed to handle this, but DRC rules have NOT been adjusted for it yet.

TO DO:

	Add connection for ground
	Finish Layout
	Run DRC for 3-4 ozCU/ft^2
		



Board physical IO:
	Charger_In		High-amp connector for charger
	V_ARRAY			Extreme-amp bolt-on connector to high side of battery array OR fuse
	V_OUT			Extreme-amp bolt-on connector power output to distribution
	Logic			Interconnect between power and logic board.	

	
ICs:
	IRLS3034-7PPbF x2	240A rated surface mount power MOSFET
	LT1910			High-side MOSFET driver
	ACS770ECB-200B-PFF	±200A rated bidirectional hall-effect current sensor.
	STPS5045S		50A rated surface mount Schottky diode


Notes:
	This specific board must be manufactured with 3 oz/ft^2 of copper minimum, preferably 4 oz/ft^2. The board should be designed to handle this, but DRC rules have NOT been adjusted for it yet.

	Due to the high copper content of the board, and the nearly comprehensive use of SMT, hotplate soldering is strongly encouraged. If hotplate soldering is used, the ACS770 and the charger connection should be mounted separately, as they are PTH components.

	Dual power MOSFETs switch the power on and off. A dual FET design is used to reduce power losses, and more importantly heat generated, at the switch. 

	A Schottky diode prevents power from being drawn from the charging port. Do not omit this diode.

	The physical board is shaped roughly like a feminine hygiene product. This was unintentional and not worth changing. The board is not intended to be used as a feminine hygiene product. Make no attempt to do so.




_logic		 

TO DO:
	Implement new LCD
	Add connection for ground
	Properly layout
	Implement interconnect
		






Analog measurements:
	Charge V Meas		Voltage measurement at charger input
	5V Input V Meas		Voltage measurement at 5V regulator
	Output V Meas		Voltage Measurement at output
	Array I Meas		Current measurement at pack high side
	Cell V Meas (x8)	Voltage measurement at each cell; 0-5V Isolated


Electromechanical Inputs:
	Logic Power Switch	Disconnects 5V regulator
	Installed Switch	Intended to detect if battery is installed in rover
	Power Switch		Intended to power on Gate; should be Normally open Estop type
	LCD Wake		Intended to wake LCD; should be momentary pushbutton



Board physical IO:
	JP Inputs (x3)		Used for software switches
	RoveCom			Standardized RoveCom (PoRC not supported)
	V_CELL_IN		9-pin input from battery cells for voltage measurement
	V_CELL_OUT		9-pin output passing cell voltages through for external measurement

MCU IO:
	I_ARRAY		Input	PF7	Analog voltage for array current measurement
	GATE		Output	PE2	Digital active high output to FET	
	LCD_ON		Output	PC7	Digital active high output to turn on external LCD
	BUZZ_1		Output	PB5	Digital PWM-driven buzzer #1
	BUZZ_2		Output	PB6	Digital PWM-driven buzzer #2
	SW_LCDWAKE	Input	PD5	Active Low to wake LCD
	SW_POWER	Input	PB0	Active high to power on rover 
	SW_INSTALLED	Input	PE6	Active Low to indicate battery installed
	OC_TRIP		Input	PB3	Active low it indicate overcurrent at FET

	
ICs:
	ATMega32u4		Primary MCU
	LTC6809-2		BMS chip
	


Notes:

	5V power is currently supplied by a Murata OKI-78SR buck converter with a Pi filter. This should probably be changed, as the OKI is extremely inefficient at low (<200mA) current levels.

	The logic power switch removes power to the regulator. When switched "off", the only waste power is leakage current is through the main MOSFET, which is very very low. When switched "off", the switch connects to the charger input. (Even when switched off, the 5V logic will be powered up if the charger is connected.)
	
	The 5V Input V Meas is used as pack voltage measurement when the system is switched on. When switched off, it is disconnected from the battery, and connected to the charger input. 

	When the charger is connected, the Charge and 5V Input V Measurements are compared in software. If they are equal (i.e., logic switch is set set to "off", system should be in a "Charge Only" mode. If the logic switch is set to off, the system is powered on and the charger is disconnected, the system will suddenly shut off (as power to the 5V logic would be lost).

	With the Logic switch on, the system may be simultaneously run and charged. This is not necessarily recommended, as it may (or may not) cause odd charger behavior, depending on the external charger. 

	The Balance charger connects to a 9-pin balance lead that passes through the BMS. There are currently 8 differential voltage amplifiers used at each battery, to detect voltage levels. These are costly and may not be used in the final implementation.
